feat: Add docs for *VideoFrameCallback() methods (#31762)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlvideoelement/requestvideoframecallback/index.md

---
title: "HTMLVideoElement: requestVideoFrameCallback() method"
short-title: requestVideoFrameCallback()
slug: Web/API/HTMLVideoElement/requestVideoFrameCallback
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.HTMLVideoElement.requestVideoFrameCallback
---

> {{APIRef("Picture-in-Picture API")}}

Reviewer: same as above

Author: Same as above.

> The **`requestVideoFrameCallback()`** method of the {{domxref("HTMLVideoElement")}} interface registers a callback function that runs when a new video frame is sent to the compositor, allowing developers to perform efficient per-frame operations on video.

Author: Some good suggestions here. I ended up with (in my next commit):

> The **`requestVideoFrameCallback()`** method of the {{domxref("HTMLVideoElement")}} interface registers a callback function that runs when a new video frame is sent to the compositor. This enables developers to perform efficient operations on each video frame.

> The **`requestVideoFrameCallback()`** method of the {{domxref("HTMLVideoElement")}} interface registers a callback function that runs when a new video frame is sent to the compositor, allowing developers to perform efficient per-frame operations on video.

Reviewer 2: Excellent! Thanks!

## Description

> Typical use cases for `requestVideoFrameCallback()` include video processing and painting to a canvas, video analysis, and synchronization with external audio sources. Per-frame processing was previously done in a less efficient and accurate fashion, by continually querying {{domxref("HTMLMediaElement.currentTime")}} and grabbing the current video display, without having access to the actual frames.

Reviewer 3: FWIW, I also used the [`timeupdate`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/timeupdate_event) event in the past.

Author: Ah, that is a much better way to do it. I've updated the text to suit.

> Typical use cases for `requestVideoFrameCallback()` include video processing and painting to a canvas, video analysis, and synchronization with external audio sources. Per-frame processing was previously done in a less efficient or accurate fashion by running operations on the current video display whenever the {{domxref("HTMLMediaElement.timeupdate_event", "timeupdate")}} event fires, without having access to the actual frames.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, thanks for the explainer

> Typical use cases for `requestVideoFrameCallback()` include video processing and painting to a canvas, video analysis, and synchronization with external audio sources. Per-frame processing was previously done in a less efficient or accurate fashion by running operations on the current video display whenever the {{domxref("HTMLMediaElement.timeupdate_event", "timeupdate")}} event fires. This technique does not provide access to the actual video frames.

Reviewer 2: The updated text is good, thanks!
Just a nit to maintain the same tense
```suggestion
Typical use cases for `requestVideoFrameCallback()` include video processing and painting to a canvas, video analysis, and synchronization with external audio sources. Per-frame processing used to be done in a less efficient or accurate fashion by running operations on the current video display whenever the {{domxref("HTMLMediaElement.timeupdate_event", "timeupdate")}} event fired. This technique did not provide access to the actual video frames.
```

> `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is used in the same way as {{domxref("Window.requestAnimationFrame()")}} — you typically use it to run a callback function that performs some operation and then calls `requestVideoFrameCallback()` again to run the callback when the next video frame is composited. However, `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is tailored for video operations in several ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`requestVideoFrameCallback()` is used in the same way as {{domxref("Window.requestAnimationFrame()")}} — you typically use it to run a callback function that performs some operation and then call `requestVideoFrameCallback()` again to run the callback when the next video frame is composited. However, `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is tailored for video operations in several ways:
```

Author: This didn't feel quite right to me, so I've tried making a more substantial change:

> `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is used in the same way as {{domxref("Window.requestAnimationFrame()")}}. You use it to run a callback function that performs some operation on the next video frame sent to the compositor. The callback finishes by calling `requestVideoFrameCallback()` again to run the callback when the next video frame is composited, and so on. However, `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is tailored for video operations in several ways:

WDYT?

> `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is used in the same way as {{domxref("Window.requestAnimationFrame()")}}. You use it to run a callback function that performs some operation on the next video frame sent to the compositor. The callback finishes by calling `requestVideoFrameCallback()` again to run the callback when the next video frame is composited, and so on. However, `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is tailored for video operations in several ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`requestVideoFrameCallback()` is used in the same way as {{domxref("Window.requestAnimationFrame()")}}. You use it to run a callback function that performs some operation when the next video frame is sent to the compositor. The callback finishes by calling `requestVideoFrameCallback()` again to run the callback when the next video frame is composited, and so on. However, `requestVideoFrameCallback()` is tailored for video operations in several ways:
```

- `requestVideoFrameCallback()` provides reliable access to each individual video frame.

> - Whereas `requestAnimationFrame()` tries to match the display refresh rate (most commonly 60Hz), `requestVideoFrameCallback()` tries to match the video frame rate. Specifically, the callback will run at the lesser of the video frame rate and the browser paint refresh rate. For example, a 25fps video playing in a browser that paints at 60Hz would fire callbacks at 25Hz. A 120fps video in that same 60Hz browser would fire callbacks at 60Hz.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In contrast, `requestAnimationFrame()` tries to match the display refresh rate (most commonly 60Hz), `requestVideoFrameCallback()` tries to match the video frame rate. Specifically, the callback will run at the lesser of the video frame rate and the browser paint refresh rate. For example, a 25fps video playing in a browser that paints at 60Hz would fire callbacks at 25Hz. A 120fps video in that same 60Hz browser would fire callbacks at 60Hz.
```

Author: I handled this in a different way:

> - `requestAnimationFrame()` tries to match the display refresh rate (most commonly 60Hz). `requestVideoFrameCallback()` instead tries to match the video frame rate. Specifically, the callback will run at the lesser of the video frame rate and the browser paint refresh rate. For example, a 25fps video playing in a browser that paints at 60Hz would fire callbacks at 25Hz. A 120fps video in that same 60Hz browser would fire callbacks at 60Hz.

> - `requestAnimationFrame()` tries to match the display refresh rate (most commonly 60Hz). `requestVideoFrameCallback()` instead tries to match the video frame rate. Specifically, the callback will run at the lesser of the video frame rate and the browser paint refresh rate. For example, a 25fps video playing in a browser that paints at 60Hz would fire callbacks at 25Hz. A 120fps video in that same 60Hz browser would fire callbacks at 60Hz.

Reviewer 2: Looks good

- `requestVideoFrameCallback()` makes useful video metadata available in the callback function.

> One thing to bear in mind is that `requestVideoFrameCallback()` does not offer any strict guarantees that the output from your callback will remain in sync with the video frame rate. It may end up being a fired one v-sync late, relative to when the new video frame was presented (v-sync, or vertical synchronization, being a graphics technology that synchronizes the frame rate of a video and the refresh rate of a monitor).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One thing to bear in mind is that `requestVideoFrameCallback()` does not offer any strict guarantees that the output from your callback will remain in sync with the video frame rate. It may end up being fired one vertical synchronization (v-sync) late, relative to when the new video frame was presented (v-sync being a graphics technology that synchronizes the frame rate of a video and the refresh rate of a monitor).
```

> One thing to bear in mind is that `requestVideoFrameCallback()` does not offer any strict guarantees that the output from your callback will remain in sync with the video frame rate. It may end up being fired one vertical synchronization (v-sync) late, relative to when the new video frame was presented (v-sync being a graphics technology that synchronizes the frame rate of a video and the refresh rate of a monitor).

Author: Like it. I ended up with

> One thing to bear in mind is that `requestVideoFrameCallback()` does not offer any strict guarantees that the output from your callback will remain in sync with the video frame rate. It may end up being fired one vertical synchronization (v-sync) later than when the new video frame was presented. (V-sync is a graphics technology that synchronizes the frame rate of a video with the refresh rate of a monitor).

Basically the same, but with a typo fixed.

> The API runs on the main thread, video compositing likely happens on a separate compositing thread, and you've got to factor in the time taken for these operations to complete, and for the video itself and the result of your `requestVideoFrameCallback()` operation to display on the screen.

Author: I used this verbatim

> You can compare the `now` callback parameter and the `expectedDisplayTime` metadata property to determine whether your callback is a v-sync late. If `expectedDisplayTime` is within about five to ten microseconds of `now`, the frame is already rendered. If the `expectedDisplayTime` is approximately sixteen milliseconds in the future (assuming your browser/screen is refreshing at 60Hz), then the callback is a v-sync out.

Reviewer: I wonder if it is a good idea to create a API summary, based on this *Description* section

Reviewer: ok, just a personal suggestion

Author: Yup, and your suggestions are always appreciated 🤗

## Syntax

```js-nolint
requestVideoFrameCallback(callback)
```

### Parameters

- `callback`

  - : The callback function that runs when a new video frame is sent to the compositor. This contains two parameters:

    - `now`

>       - : A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} representing the time the callback was called.

Author: Applied

      - : An object containing the following properties:

        - `expectedDisplayTime`: A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} representing the time at which the browser expects the frame to be visible.
        - `height`: A number representing the height of the video frame in media pixels (visible decoded pixels, without aspect ratio adjustments).
        - `mediaTime`: A number representing the media presentation timestamp of the presented frame, in seconds. This is equal to the frame's timestamp on the {{domxref("HTMLMediaElement.currentTime")}} timeline.
        - `presentationTime`: A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} representing the time at which the browser submitted the frame for composition.
        - `presentedFrames`: A number representing the number of frames submitted for composition so far alongside the current callback. This can be used to detect whether frames were missed between callback instances.
        - `processingDuration`: A number representing the duration, in seconds, between the submission of the encoded packet with the same presentation timestamp as this frame to the decoder (i.e. the `mediaTime`) and the decoded frame being ready for presentation.

>         - `width`: A number representing the width of the video frame in media pixels (visible decoded pixels, without aspect ratio adjustments).

Author: Beautiful. I updated all of these verbatim.

        Additional metadata properties may be available within `requestVideoFrameCallback()` callbacks used in {{domxref("WebRTC_API", "WebRTC", "", "nocode")}} applications:

        - `captureTime`: A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} representing the time the frame was captured, in the case of video frames coming from a local or remote source. For a remote source, the capture time is estimated using clock synchronization and RTCP sender reports to convert RTP timestamps to capture time.
        - `receiveTime`: A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} representing the time the encoded frame was received by the platform, in the case of video frames coming from a remote source. Specifically, this equals the time at which the last packet belonging to this frame was received over the network.

>         - `rtpTimestamp`: A number representing the RTP timestamp associated with this video frame.

Author: Super. Applied verbatim

> **Note:** `width` and `height` may differ from {{domxref("HTMLVideoElement.videoWidth")}} and {{domxref("HTMLVideoElement.videoHeight")}} in certain cases (for example, an anamorphic video may have rectangular pixels).

### Return value

A number representing a unique callback ID.

This can be passed to {{DOMxRef("HTMLVideoElement.cancelVideoFrameCallback()")}} to cancel the callback registration.

## Examples

> ### Draw video frames onto a canvas

Author: Updated.

It could be "drawing" or "rendering" really, but I think "drawing" sounds a bit more accurate. You are not doing much in the way of calculation or processing to calculate the pixels that are put on the canvas. You are just taking an exact copy of the pixels in each video frame and putting then on the canvas.

This example shows how to use `requestVideoFrameCallback()` to draw the frames of a video onto a {{htmlelement("canvas")}} element at exactly the same frame rate as the video. It also logs the frame metadata to the DOM for debugging purposes.

```js
if ("requestVideoFrameCallback" in HTMLVideoElement.prototype) {
  let paintCount = 0;
  let startTime = 0.0;

  const updateCanvas = (now, metadata) => {
    if (startTime === 0.0) {
      startTime = now;
    }

    ctx.drawImage(video, 0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);

    const elapsed = (now - startTime) / 1000.0;
    const fps = (++paintCount / elapsed).toFixed(3);
    fpsInfo.innerText = `video fps: ${fps}`;
    metadataInfo.innerText = JSON.stringify(metadata, null, 2);

    // Re-register the callback to be notified about the next frame.
    video.requestVideoFrameCallback(updateCanvas);
  };

>   // Initially register the callback to be notified about the first frame.

Author: I ended up changing this to 

> Initial registration of the callback to run on the first frame

And similar language for the earlier comment. The language about notification seemed a bit overly complex - you are running a callback function that does something to the next video frame sent to the compositor.
